[CI] [GHA] [AW] Introduce PR failure investigator (#4194)
openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai: .github/workflows/ci-doctor.md

---
description: |
  On-demand CI failure investigator for pull requests. Triggered by the `/ci-doctor`
  slash command posted in a pull request comment. Analyzes every failed CI pipeline on
  the pull request, identifies root causes and patterns, and posts a single consolidated
  summary comment with actionable remedies.

on:
  slash_command:
    name: ci-doctor
    events: [pull_request_comment]

concurrency:
  group: gh-aw-${{ github.workflow }}

# Only allow a select few users to invoke /ci-doctor

> if: ${{ contains(fromJSON('["akashchi","mryzhov","akladiev","ababushk","dorloff","as-suvorov"]'), github.actor) }}

Author: @as-suvorov, please provide a list of GH identifiers for this repo.

> if: ${{ contains(fromJSON('["akashchi","mryzhov","akladiev","ababushk","dorloff","as-suvorov"]'), github.actor) }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if: ${{ contains(fromJSON('["akashchi","as-suvorov", "Wovchena", "sbalandi"]'), github.actor) }}
```

> ---

Author: This is a slightly modified version of openvino's CI Doctor from https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/c1badc1f35191ba9c4cf4c60a2c2a4904487d66c/.github/workflows/ci-doctor.md. 
Once https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/36952 and https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/36970 are merged, I suggest also porting the CI Doctor MQ agentic workflow from the openvino repository.

   - **Network**: unreachable network/services, exceeded max retries

2. **Deep Dive Analysis**:
   - For test failures: Identify specific test methods and assertions
   - For build failures: Analyze compilation errors and missing dependencies
   - For infrastructure issues: Check runner logs and resource usage
   - For timeout issues: Identify slow operations and bottlenecks

3. **Source Code Inspection Safeguards**:
   The investigation must stay narrowly scoped. Do **not** attempt to analyze the
   whole codebase or browse files unrelated to the failure signal extracted from
   the logs. Apply the following hard limits:

   - **Log-first, code-second**: Only inspect source files after you have
     extracted concrete file paths, symbols, or component names from the failed
     job logs. If the logs do not point to a specific area, do **not** start
     opening source files at random — proceed to reporting with the log-derived
     findings instead.
   - **Component scoping**: Identify the affected component (e.g., a single
     plugin under `src/plugins/<name>/`, a frontend under `src/frontends/<name>/`,

>      a binding under `src/bindings/<lang>/`, or a specific test suite directory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     pipeline - `src/cpp/src/visual_language`, `src/cpp/src/image_generation`, ..., a specific model type under `src/cpp/src/visual_language/<name>/`, or a specific test suite directory).
```
